# Aora
Next-Gen Peer-to-Peer Decentralized Content Streaming Platform

This is gonna be sick

## What

Aora is a decentralized peer-to-peer content streaming and sharing platform that
allows users to broadcast and express themselves with fast and reliable speeds
without sacrificing any security or control over the content you produce.

## Why

We currently live in an age of rapid change. People are more open and connected
than ever, and they're sharing more than ever before. Be it pictures, video,
or music, people have come to expect to be able to document and share their
lives with the world. This phenomenon has seen an increase in all kinds of
expression, and generally agreed to be a net benefit to the world. To advance
the cause of maintaining and growing this sphere of free expression and
connection, there are two main fronts which are beginning to threaten this
space. The first is the social ramifications of the centralized control over
content that exists as the status quo today. This brave
new world was built upon a general assumption of freedom of expression that has
persisted in online communities since the beginning of the internet. We all
at least hope that the communities that we participate in are fair to all
viewpoints and allow for free discussion. Sadly, we have seen examples of
censorship that reveal the inherently centralized nature of control over the
content that appears on the web's most popular sites. This opens up concerns
over the fundamental freedoms that we expect from being online.

The second issue is the technological ramifications of a rapidly expanding
userbase that uploads immeasureable amounts of content to the web every minute.
It is clear that there is an increasingly dire need to efficiently distribute
the world's data to preserve bandwidth and storage capacity on our devices.
Currently, the main method of storing and serving data is the ["Hub and Spoke"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoke%E2%80%93hub_distribution_paradigm)
model. This method of distribution has the advantage of ensuring certainty in
the means of delivery. If something is wrong, you know where to look. Another
more important feature is the ability of the "hub" to control the data that is
stored on the network. Depending on your perspective, this either gives
necessary control to maintain the quality and content of the network.
Centralized networks have the control needed to guarantee a certain level of
service with a standardized [Content Delivery Network(CDN)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network). On the
other hand, centralized networks needlessly centralizes literally all of the
power over a network into the hands of a corruptible few. On a technological
side, this control means that all the responsibility for network maintenance is
vested in the hub. If the network is slow or unreliable, you need the hub to do
something or else you're out of luck.

On the opposite side of the spectrum, we have Peer-to-Peer(p2p) networking. This
method of distribution decentralizes content to various nodes. On most p2p
networks, the nodes are equally powerful and are responsible for maintaining the
content on the network. Nodes that wish to download information from the network
simply ask around to those who have the information, and the CDN protocol guides
the information to its destination by the most efficient path available. This
allows parallel sharing of information between nodes on the network rather than
relying solely on the connection to the main hub-server. With the addition of
[end-to-end encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End-to-end_encryption),
p2p creates flexibility, security and speed on the network, but sacrifices some
reliability due to the inability to quality control the nodes and maintain
reliably fast connections on the network.

So to summarize, the main issue holding back p2p technology from surpassing
centralized models is the inability to ensure quality nodes with good
connections to support the network-wide CDN protocol. The blockchain presents a 
revolutionary change to this paradigm. Due to its inherent store-of-value
functionality, fungible tokens running on the network can act as stand-ins for
fiat currency value. The reason this is important is because this means that it
is now possible to incentivize nodes on the network to maintain a certain level
of connectivity and reliability. The network can reward reliable and efficient
nodes with tokens that have market value. Overtime, this would grow the network
organically with no loss in quality or reliability.

Aora will be the first widely-available platform to bring this game-changing
technology to the market.

## Who

Abraham Bonane, Founder and CEO
